README.md, before:

# Play REST API

This is the example project for [Making a REST API in Play](http://developer.lightbend.com/guides/play-rest-api/index.html).

## Appendix

### Running

You need to download and install sbt for this application to run.

Once you have sbt installed, the following at the command prompt will start up Play in development mode:

```bash
sbt run
```

Play will start up on the HTTP port at <http://localhost:9000/>.   You don't need to deploy or reload anything -- changing any source code while the server is running will automatically recompile and hot-reload the application on the next HTTP request.

### Usage

If you call the same URL from the command line, you’ll see JSON. Using [httpie](https://httpie.org/), we can execute the command:

```bash
http --verbose http://localhost:9000/v1/posts
```

and get back:

```routes
GET /v1/posts HTTP/1.1
```

Likewise, you can also send a POST directly as JSON:

```bash
http --verbose POST http://localhost:9000/v1/posts title="hello" body="world"
```

and get:

```routes
POST /v1/posts HTTP/1.1
```

### Load Testing

The best way to see what Play can do is to run a load test.  We've included Gatling in this test project for integrated load testing.

Start Play in production mode, by [staging the application](https://www.playframework.com/documentation/2.5.x/Deploying) and running the play scripts:

```bash
sbt stage
cd target/universal/stage
./bin/play-scala-rest-api-example -Dplay.http.secret.key=some-long-key-that-will-be-used-by-your-application
```

Then you'll start the Gatling load test up (it's already integrated into the project):

```bash
sbt ";project gatling;gatling:test"
```

For best results, start the gatling load test up on another machine so you do not have contending resources.  You can edit the [Gatling simulation](http://gatling.io/docs/2.2.2/general/simulation_structure.html#simulation-structure), and change the numbers as appropriate.

Once the test completes, you'll see an HTML file containing the load test chart:

```bash
./play-scala-rest-api-example/target/gatling/gatlingspec-1472579540405/index.html
```

That will contain your load test results.

Commit message:

Add dockerised mysql db with dummy database

README.md, after:

# Play Sandbox

Built off of the example project for [Making a REST API in Play](http://developer.lightbend.com/guides/play-rest-api/index.html), 
this repo is just for testing out various aspects of the Play ecosystem from first principles. 

## Database setup:
For testing complex SQL queries with Anorm, I found [this](https://github.com/datacharmer/test_db) fake employees database that was created
with the intent of testing applications and DB servers. The raw dump.sql of the entire DB can be found [here](https://www.dropbox.com/s/znmjrtlae6vt4zi/employees.sql?dl=0).

The file is pretty large (~90MB), so it's being managed with git lfs

Finally, in order to get a docker image up and running that links to a volume containing the data from the dump file, follow
[these steps](https://stackoverflow.com/a/33397185/1751834). The basic idea seems to be that the mysql.volume `./docker/data:/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d`
runs a script in the background and pulls in any dump files from the `./docker/data` directory. 

To understand what's going on a bit better, check out the [docker-compose volumes](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/#volumes) docs.

**TODO:** the docker-compose file is a bit [old](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v2/#volumes_from), try updating it to version 3




## Appendix

### Running

You need to download and install sbt for this application to run.

Once you have sbt installed, the following at the command prompt will start up Play in development mode:

```bash
sbt run
```

Play will start up on the HTTP port at <http://localhost:9000/>.   You don't need to deploy or reload anything -- changing any source code while the server is running will automatically recompile and hot-reload the application on the next HTTP request.

### Usage

If you call the same URL from the command line, you’ll see JSON. Using [httpie](https://httpie.org/), we can execute the command:

```bash
http --verbose http://localhost:9000/v1/posts
```

and get back:

```routes
GET /v1/posts HTTP/1.1
```

Likewise, you can also send a POST directly as JSON:

```bash
http --verbose POST http://localhost:9000/v1/posts title="hello" body="world"
```

and get:

```routes
POST /v1/posts HTTP/1.1
```

### Load Testing

The best way to see what Play can do is to run a load test.  We've included Gatling in this test project for integrated load testing.

Start Play in production mode, by [staging the application](https://www.playframework.com/documentation/2.5.x/Deploying) and running the play scripts:

```bash
sbt stage
cd target/universal/stage
./bin/play-scala-rest-api-example -Dplay.http.secret.key=some-long-key-that-will-be-used-by-your-application
```

Then you'll start the Gatling load test up (it's already integrated into the project):

```bash
sbt ";project gatling;gatling:test"
```

For best results, start the gatling load test up on another machine so you do not have contending resources.  You can edit the [Gatling simulation](http://gatling.io/docs/2.2.2/general/simulation_structure.html#simulation-structure), and change the numbers as appropriate.

Once the test completes, you'll see an HTML file containing the load test chart:

```bash
./play-scala-rest-api-example/target/gatling/gatlingspec-1472579540405/index.html
```

That will contain your load test results.
